Brother Erich Frost
was a young man in Germany
who set a good example
in making wise decisions early in life.
He was born in 1900,
baptized 23 years later,
and entered
the full-time ministry in 1928.
Not long after, he was put in charge
of the underground work
of the persecuted
Witnesses of Jehovah in Germany,
caring well for that assignment
for eight months
until he was incarcerated.
In this archived audio recording,
you will hear the fascinating experience
of how Brother Frost
composed a Kingdom melody
in the middle of Sachsenhausen
—a Nazi concentration camp.
I always had the desire
to compose music.
As everybody knows,
we had the hardest work
and suffered the hardest
in the concentration camps.
We were starved,
the labor
exceeded our strength,
and the harassment was often unbearable.
So, as usual, I wanted to find
a way to build up the brothers.
We had such a fine unity
there in the Sachsenhausen camp.
I felt moved
to compose a song
that we could sing together
for our mutual encouragement.
Every morning we marched
to the construction site
of a sewage plant
in Oranienburg.
Our labor group
consisted of about 40 brothers
under the strict watch of the SS.
While marching,
my mind went back and forth
and “Bum Bam Badam
Bam Tarambambamba.”
And gradually,
a melody formed.
That’s how the music
was developed.
But how could the verses
enter the camp
without being able
to write them down?
I found a few brothers
who helped me.
I repeated the first verse
to one of them until he knew it by heart,
either while marching or while driving
the wheelbarrow at work.
I told the second verse
to another brother,
still to others the third
and the fourth.
In the evening, I asked
each of the brothers to recite his verse.
That’s how the song came to life.
In the mornings,
when the 40 of us were marching
through the streets of Oranienburg,
we already felt worn out.
When one started humming
that melody,
the entire labor group
trembled with excitement.
We had to control ourselves
to not break out in loud singing.
That would have been dangerous,
of course.
They would have brought us
back to the camp
and severely punished us.
As we sat together in the evenings
and someone started humming that melody,
quite a number of us
sang along, and we rejoiced.
Our eyes were shining.
This gave us
new courage and hope.
We also had evenings of worship.
Talks were given, and we had copies
of The Watchtower that we studied together.
So we were able to have
some real times of peace
and special encouragement
and felt uplifted by that song.
Brother Frost,
who was one of the anointed,
finished
his earthly course in 1987.
After World War II
and nine years of imprisonment,
he served as the overseer
of our branch office
in Germany for ten years.
This was before
the arrangement was instituted
of having a Branch Committee
oversee the work.
The very descriptive paintings
that you saw in this segment
were painted by a brother
who was imprisoned
in a concentration camp
similar to the one Brother Frost was in.
And I’m sure
you recognized the song.
You can find it in our songbook,
though the tune is a little different.
When Brother Frost found out
that his song had been included in it,
he was overjoyed
and said, “My clumsy lyrics
were transformed
into three wonderful verses.”
If you turn to song 17
in your songbook,
you’ll find the song
originally composed by Brother Frost
—“Forward, You Witnesses!”